feat(ins): add local storage (#4686)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/local-storage/quickstart.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Local Storage - Quickstart
  description: Get started with Scaleway Local Storage. This guide covers creating, attaching, and mounting Block Storage volumes to your Instances for efficient data management.
content:
  h1: Local Storage - Quickstart
  paragraph: Get started with Scaleway Local Storage. This guide covers creating, attaching, and mounting Block Storage volumes to your Instances for efficient data management.
tags: local storage overview get started
dates:
  validation: 2025-03-24
  posted: 2025-03-24
categories:
  - local-storage
  - storage
---

> Scaleway Local Storage is an storage solution integrated directly into some of Scaleway's cloud Instances. The storage capacity varies by Instance type, with a maximum of 600GB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaleway Local Storage is a storage solution integrated directly into some of Scaleway's cloud Instances. The storage capacity varies by Instance type, with a maximum of 600 GB.
```

Local Storage is tied to the lifespan of the Instance; data stored locally will be lost if the Instance is terminated.
For persistent storage needs, Scaleway offers [Block Storage](/block-storage/), which provides scalable, network-attached storage that remains intact independently of the Instance's state.

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

## How to create a Local Storage volume

1. Click **Local Storage** in the **Storage** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com) side menu. The Local Storage page displays.
2. Click **+ Create volume**.
3. Follow the steps in the creation wizard:
    - Choose an [Availability Zone](/instances/concepts/#availability-zone).
    - Configure the volume:
        - Enter a name for your volume or leave the automatically generated name.
        - Define a volume size.
        <Message type="important">

>           The volume size must be at least 1GB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The volume size must be at least 1 GB.
```

        </Message>
    - Select an Instance from the drop-down to attach your volume. This step is optional.
    - Check the estimated cost.
4. Click **Create volume**. The volumes overview page displays.
    <Message type="important">
      The volume must be in the same Availability Zone as the Instance you want to connect it to.
    </Message>

## How to attach a Local Storage volume

1. Click **Local Storage** in the **Storage** section of the Scaleway console side menu. Your Local Storage volumes display.
2. Click **Attach to Instance** next to the volume of your choice. A pop-up displays.
3. Select the Instance to which you want to attach your volume from the drop-down.
4. Click **Attach volume to Instance**.

<Message type="important">

>   * You can attach up to 15 volumes at a time to a single Instance.
>   * Local Storage resources are limited bound to the characteristics of your Instance (vCPU/RAM). Alternatively, you can use [Block Storage](block-storage/quickstart/) to increase the storage capacity of your Instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * You can attach up to 15 volumes at a time to a single Instance.
  * Local Storage resources are limited bound to the characteristics of your Instance (vCPU/RAM). Alternatively, you can use [Block Storage](/block-storage/quickstart/) to increase the storage capacity of your Instance.
```

>   * Local Storage resources are limited bound to the characteristics of your Instance (vCPU/RAM). Alternatively, you can use [Block Storage](block-storage/quickstart/) to increase the storage capacity of your Instance.

Reviewer: Same as above. about `limited bound`.
